---
title: "CodeBook"
output: html_document
---

# Description of variables in the tidy data set

1. subject: a certain person out of 30 volunteers for this experiment
2. activity: a certain activity out of six activities that volunteers performed for this experiment including WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING
3. MeanOf: mean value of certain measurement
4. StdOf: standard deviation of a certain measurement
5. Time: time domain signals
6. Freq: frequency domain signals
7. Body: body motion signals derived from accelaration signals
8. Gravity: gravitational signals derived from accelaration signals
9. Acc: generated by accelerometer for accelaration measurement
10. Gyro: generated by gyroscope for angular velocity measurement 
11. Mag: magnitude of the signals
12. Jerk: jerk signals
13. X: X axis of three dimensions
14. Y: Y axis of three dimensions
15. Z: Z axis of three dimensions

Example 1: MeanOfTimeBodyGyroZ
Meaning: mean of body velocity on axis Z (time domain signals)

Example 2: StdOfTimeGravityAccY
Meaning: standard deviation of gravity accelaration on axis Y (frequency domain signals)

Example 3: StdOfFreqBodyAccJerkMag
Meaning: standard deviation of magnitude of body accelaration jerk signals (frequency domain)


# Description of transformation on data

The experiment data is randomly divided into two parts: train and test. So the first step of transformation is to combine "train" and "test".  For "test" part, useful data includes "subject_test.txt" (which contains volunteer information), "X_test.txt" (which contains experiment signals) and "y_test.txt" (which contains activities that volunteer performed).

Next step is to filter data that is mean or standard deviation of measurements.

The third step is to use descriptive names for variables.

Last is to create a data set which contains average of each variable for each subject and each activity.

# Description of tidy data set

Since it contains average of each variable for each subject and each activity, so it has 180 rows (30 subjects and 6 activities).

Number of columns equals to variables which are mean or standard deviation of measurements, which is 79.
